# os-gridinfo
Returns a JSON object of grid information for MySQL/MariaDB based OpenSimulator instances

**Version**: `1.0.6`
```
Minimum OpenSimulator version: 0.9.2
```
**WARNING**: Requires backend access to the grid database!

May work with earlier versions of OpenSimulator, but this has not been tested.

# Index
- [About](#about)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Calling](#calling)
- [Sample Output](#sample_output)

## About
[Back to Top](#os-gridinfo)

This script, when invoked, will return a JSON object with the following information:
- Version number of the script
- Date and Time script was invoked in YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss format
- Total number of regions
- Number of registered Grid Gods
- Number of Grid Gods currently online
- Number of user accounts
- Number of (local) users online
- Total number of users online (users + gods) excluding HyperGrid visitors
- Number of HyperGrid visitors currently active within the grid
- Grid Status (true if one or more regions are online)
- Total land area in m²
- The regions are listed in an array with the following info:
  - Name of region
  - x-coordinate (grid coordinates)
  - y-coordinate
  - size (expressed in multiples of 256)
  - public status (i.e. no access restrictions)
  - users
    - number of local users
    - number of grid users

The `size` is expressed in the number of grid-coordinates in the x-direction. Each grid coordinate equates to a 256m x 256m square, e.g.
- 1 = '1 x 1' or '256m x 256m' or 65,536m²
- 2 = '2 x 2' or '512m x 512m' or 262,144m²
- 4 = '4 x 4' or '1024m x 1024m' or 1,048,576m² etc.

The regions are listed with public regions at the top, and with region name as a sub-sort

## Configuration
[Back to Top](#os-gridinfo)

Simply copy the files to your web space on the same machine as the database, then edit `lib/db_params.php` to set your database parameters. You should also take the opportunity to change the value of the `SECRET` defined in the same file. You should then be good to go. If you don't want a secret, simply set its value to an empty string:
```php
define("SECRET", "" );
```

## Calling
[Back to Top](#os-gridinfo)

Assuming the URI to your file is `http://mydomain.org/gridinfo.php`, you'll need to call it with the secret. You can pass this in either POST or GET parameters using the token `pw` and setting the correct value.

For example, if you use GET, and the secret is `IAmABadSecret`:
```
http://mydomain.org/gridinfo.php?pw=IAmABadSecret
```

Note that the value of `pw` should be urlencoded (`llEscapeURL()` if called from LSL) if it may contain any non-alphanumeric characters.

If `pw` does not match `SECRET`, the JSON returned will contain a stunted object with the following key/value pairs:
```json
{
  "error": "naughty access",
  "version": "1.0.6",
  "date-time": "2025-05-27 14:30:02"
}
```

The `date-time` will reflect the current date and time, and the version number will reflect the version of the script.

If there is no error, then the object should be fully populated. In this case, the value of `error` will be `OK`.

The `regionlist` data can be quite extensive if you have dozens of regions or more, and may cause memory issues or content overflow errors with LSL scripts. You can prevent the `regionlist` array from being generated by passing an additional parameter `regionlist` with the value `no`:
```
http://mydomain.org/gridinfo.php?pw=IAmABadSecret&regionlist=no
```

Note the data will still be processed in order to correctly update the `landarea` value, but the region array will not be included in the output, and each region's data will be discarded (not accumulated) so PHP doesn't run out of memory either.

# Sample Output
[Back to Top](#os-gridinfo)

```json
{
    "error": "OK",
    "version": "1.0.6",
    "date-time": "2025-05-27 14:30:02",
    "regions": 2,
    "gods": 3,
    "godsonline": 1,
    "users": 6,
    "usersonline": 2,
    "totalonline": 3,
    "grid": 1,
    "gstatus": true,
    "landarea": 1114112,
    "regionlist": [
        {
            "name": "Moss",
            "coordx": 1000,
            "coordy": 1000,
            "size": 4,
            "public": true,
            "users": {
                "grid": 0,
                "local": 0
            }

        },
        {
            "name": "Shop",
            "coordx": 1009,
            "coordy": 1000,
            "size": 1,
            "public": true,
            "users": {
                "grid": 1,
                "local": 3
            }
        }
    ]
}
```
[Back to Top](#os-gridinfo)
